a Spokane firefighter accused of buying
child porn has been desperately trying
to clear his name now a computer expert
at former federal agent says sloppy
detective work put an innocent man
through the wringer and tonight a
Spokane computer expert accuses the
State Patrol of using sloppy detective
work to arrest a firefighter on child
pornography charges it is the strongest
indication yet that lieutenant Todd
Chism did nothing illegal and was simply
a victim of credit card identity theft
our Jeff Humphrey at State Patrol
headquarters where the sergeant once in
charge of this investigation has now
been transferred to a new unit Jeff and
Robin that sergeant who works out of
western Washington said he wanted the
transfer however his reassignment
appears to be derelict for Rick directly
related to the way that this case was
handled meanwhile a new 26 page report
portrays this investigation is flawed
from the beginning the report was
compiled by a Spokane company called
global compu search and paid for by Todd
Chism the author is a former federal
agent who says state troopers did not
have sufficient probable cause to search
Chism's home when investigators learned
a bank of america credit card have been
used to buy child pornography they
backtracked the number to Chisholm's
address however the report criticizes
detectives for not asking Bank of
America if the account had ever been
compromised global copy search officials
also condemned the wsp for taking
Chisholm into custody even before they
had a chance to search his computers for
evidence Chism's arrest that day is what
triggered the release of his name and
what Chisholm describes as his public
humiliation global compu search then
forensic leask and two hard drives taken
from Chism's home according to marcus
lawson the search turned up no signs of
pornography child or adults in his sworn
affidavit Lawson concluded the failure
to follow normal investigative
procedures for cases such as this and
the investigators failure to properly
articulate the facts in the submitted
affidavit led to the mistake in search
on mr. Chism's home and business
as well as his mistaken arrest State
Patrol officials are still trying to get
their hands on the computers of
Lieutenant chisholm had to access at his
fire station but troopers may not have
the probable cause they need to get a
search warrant for that equipment
reporting live in stable full
headquarters Jeff Humphrey KXLY 4